
### Introduction

The goal of this module is to generate univariate and multivariate survival analysis.

### Input files 

The input file for this module is the master annotation file generated by the `master-annotation` module. 

```
master-annotation
└── results
    └── master_histology_hope_cohort.tsv
```

### Scripts

`01-survival-analysis.R`: This script generates survival curves for all molecular subtypes with `>= 3` samples as well as all samples. Univariate analysis was performed using `Kaplan-Meier` and multivariate analysis were performed using `Cox proportional hazards regression` model.

Following are the output files for this script:

```
results
├── alt_status_vs_survival_multivariate.pdf # multivariate analysis with ALT status and molecular subtype
├── alt_vs_survival_km.pdf # univariate analysis with ALT status only
├── msi_paired_vs_survival_multivariate.pdf # multivariate analysis with % microsatellite instability and molecular subtype 
├── msi_status_vs_survival_km.pdf # univariate analysis with microsatellite instability status only
├── msi_status_vs_survival_multivariate.pdf # multivariate analysis with microsatellite instability status and molecular subtype 
└── t_n_telomere_content_vs_survival_multivariate.pdf # univariate analysis with telomere content only
```

This script can be run using the following bash script:

```
Rscript 01-survival-analysis.R
```

`02-summary-statics-TP53.Rmd`: This script generates the summary statistics for `TP53 score` in HOPE cohort. Analyse is designed to identify the relationship between `TP53 score` and other clinical features, such as `gender`, `race`, and `molecular subtype`. The plots are save in `plot` folder. Data was subset into two files, `HGG_survial_tp53.tsv` and `GBM_survial_tp53.tsv`, based on the cancer group, which can be found in `input` folder. 

This script can be run using the following bash script:

```
Rscript -e "rmarkdown::render(`02-summary-statics-TP53.Rmd`)"
```

`03-survival-tp53.Rmd`: This script generates the survival analysis in HOPE cohort, HGG subtype. `Kaplan-Meier` and `Hazard ratio` are plotted to show the impact of factors, such as `molecular subtyping`, `TP53 score`, `TP53 status` and other features, on overall survival. The plots are save in `plot` folder. 

This script can be run using the following bash script:

```
Rscript -e "rmarkdown::render(`03-survival-tp53.Rmd`)"
```
```

