## Organize proteomic data for HOPE project

**Module author:** Zhuangzhuang Geng ([@zzgeng](https://github.com/zzgeng)), Joseph Dybas ([@JosephDybas](https://github.com/JosephDybas)) and Jo Lynne Rokita ([@jharenza](https://github.com/jharenza))

#### Inputs data

Input files are come from the Processed data, generated by Pei Wang's group from HOPE. 

* `harmonized_proteome_imputed_data_061623.tsv` is the Whole Cell Proteomic data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated sample_id. 
* `harmonized_phosphosite_imputed_data_ischemia_removed_motif_070323.tsv` is the Phospho-Proteomics motif/epitope data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `sample_id`.
* `harmonized_phosphosite_imputed_data_ischemia_removed_062823.tsv` is the Phospho-Proteomics data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `sample_id`.
* `hgnc_complete_set.txt` is a gene name database TSV file from HGNC. (https://ftp.ebi.ac.uk/pub/databases/genenames/hgnc/tsv/hgnc_complete_set.txt)

#### Output data

* `Hope_phosphosite_imputed_data_ischemia_removed.tsv` is the Phospho-Proteomics data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `Kid_First_Biospecimen_ID`.
* `Hope_phosphosite_imputed_data_ischemia_removed_liftover.tsv.gz` is the Phospho-Proteomics data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `Kid_First_Biospecimen_ID`. Gene symbols in the file have been lifted over to the same version as used in DNA/RNA data.
* `Hope_phosphosite_imputed_data_ischemia_removed_motif.tsv` is the Phospho-Proteomics motif/epitope data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `Kid_First_Biospecimen_ID`.
* `Hope_phosphosite_imputed_data_ischemia_removed_motif_liftover.tsv.gz` is the Phospho-Proteomics motif/epitope data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `Kid_First_Biospecimen_ID`. Gene symbols in the file have been lifted over to the same version as used in DNA/RNA data.
* `Hope_proteome_imputed_data_liftover.tsv.gz` is the Whole Cell Proteomic data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `Kid_First_Biospecimen_ID`. Gene symbols in the file have been lifted over to the same version as used in DNA/RNA data.
* `Hope_proteome_imputed_data.tsv` is the Whole Cell Proteomic data TSV file. Each sample is labeled with correlated `Kid_First_Biospecimen_ID`.

### Order of analysis

`01-add-bsid-to-proteomic-data.R` 
This script is designed to convert `sample_id` of processed proteomic files in input folder to `Kid_First_Biospecimen_ID`.

`01-update_gene_symbols.py` 
This script is adapted the script from `D3b-DGD-Collaboration/scripts/update_gene_symbols.py` to liftover the gene symbols to the same version as in other DNA/RNA data. 

### Running the analysis 

The analysis can be run with following (assuming you are in the analysis directory):

```
bash run_module.sh
```



